
## Description

This project is a Python application that validates BLAST database configurations.
It uses JSON configuration files to manage data sources for nucleotide and protein sequences. A YAML file can also be
used to manage the database creation process.

In the bin folder, there is a Python script that validates the JSON configuration files, and it can be used
directly on manuallya or automatically generated JSON files. The validator also checks the global YAML to find the
different JSON files and their respective environments.

The docs folder contains documentation on how to create  these configuration files, with required fields and structures.

## Prerequisites

This repo uses the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) tool to perform some simple checks and validation before a git commit is executed.
The pre-commit hooks are configued in [.pre-commit-config.yaml](./pre-commit-config.yaml) and the pre-commit tool is installed as a dev dependency in `pyproject.toml`.

### Initial configuration

This only needs to be done once in a local repo.

```shell
poetry run pre-commit install
```

### Running checks manually

Run pre-commit hooks on changed files.

```shell
poetry run pre-commit run
```

Run pre-commit hooks on all files
```shell
poetry run pre-commit run --all-files
```

## How to manually create a JSON configuration file

[Follow this simple guide on what is required on a
JSON configuration file](docs/README.md)

### Validating BLAST DB Configurations

```shell
poetry run python bin/validate_blast_db_config.py
```

## Auto generated code

[Quicktype](https://quicktype.io/) was used to autogenerate python code from the
[Metadata JSON schema](./schemas/metadata_schema.json). This code can then be used
to programmatically build a BLAST DB configuration based on the schema. When the
schema is updated the code should be regenerated by running
[generate_code_from_schemas.sh](./bin/generate_code_from_schemas.sh).

```shell
./bin/generate_code_from_schemas.sh
```

Other languages are supported by Quicktype, but only python is currently in use.


## Authors

Adam Wright and Paulo Nuin with support from the Alliance of Genome Resources
and WormBase

## Version History

* 0.1
    * Initial Release
